# Building Your Vim-like Text Editor

**Score**: 120/100 (highest)

**Hongli SHEN** && **Ximing ZHENG**

## Description

This project initializes the core functionalities of Vim on a Linux system using C++. It leverages <ncurses.h> to enhance its usability and interface.

- **Basic parts**
  - Normal mode: file and mode commands, cursor movement, line navigation, basic editing.
  - Insert mode: direct text insertion, new line creation, backspace support, real-time display update, cursor movement with typed text, exit to normal mode.
- **Bonus parts**
  - undo and redo
  - line numbers and jumping
  - Search and replace
  - switch through multiple files by command line, as well as editing them simultaneously
  - UI improvements: 
    - better color
    - mode display
    - background color change
    - warning messages display
    - words underline
    - font bold

#### Contributions

- **Hongli SHEN**: Basic parts without overflow content, undo and redo, line numbers and jumping, background color, document.
- **Ximing ZHENG**: bug fixed, overflow content, background color change, search and replace, warning display, switch through multiple files, simultaneously editing, words underline, font bold.

## Project structure

```
CS219_Advanced_Programming_Project/                # The root directory
├── build/                       # Build directory containing intermediate and binary files
│   ├── CMakeFiles/              # Auxiliary files generated by CMake
│   ├── cmake_install.cmake      # CMake installation configuration file
│   ├── CMakeCache.txt           # CMake cache file
│   ├── Makefile                 # Makefile generated by the build tool
│   └── MiniVim                  # The compiled executable file
│
├── files/                       # files to edit, containing .txt files
│
├── include/                     # Header file directory for storing declarations
│   └── MiniVim.h                # Header file for the MiniVim module
│
├── src/                         # Source code directory for implementation files
│   └── MiniVim.cpp              # Implementation file for the MiniVim module
│
├── CMakeLists.txt               # CMake build configuration file for defining build rules
├── main.cpp                     # Entry point of the program
├── README.md                    # Documentation providing an overview and usage instructions for the project

```

The project initialize the vim functions through a C++ class `MiniVim`. It include a head file `<ncurses.h>` for terminal-based capabilities.  [http://tldp.org/HOWTO/NCURSES-Programming-HOWTO]()

## Usage

#### Build

```sh
mkdir build             #create a build folder
cd build                #change directory to build
cmake ..
make

./minivim               #run the program
```

Should work for Linux.

#### Choose file

you need to input a file name to enter the specific file.

```shell
#example: suppose you want to enter a file named text.txt
text                    
```

#### Arguments

We start with normal mode when enter mini-vim.

**Normal mode**

- `h,j,k,l`: move the cursor(`left,down,up,right`)
- Arrow keys to move the cursor
- `0`: jump the cursor to the beginning of the current line
- `$`: jump the cursor to the end of the current line
- `gg`: move the cursor to the first line at the beginning
- `G`: move the cursor to the last line at the beginning
- `dd`: delete the current line
- `yy`: copy the line
- `p`: paste the copied line below the cursor
- `u` for undo and `Ctrl+R` for redo
- `i`: move to the insert mode
- `Ctrl+B`: font bold
- `Ctrl+U`: words underline

**Insert mode**

- type characters for insertion
- `enter`: create a new line
- `backspace`: delete characters
- move cursor operations are the same as in normal mode
- `esc`: exit to normal mode

we press `:` to enter command line mode when we are in the normal mode.

**command line mode**

- `:q`: exit the program
- `:w`: save the file
- `:wq`: save the file and enter the program
- `:+number`: jump the cursor to the specific line at the beginning
- `:background`: change background color (light and black)
- `:cd/file_name`: change directory to another file
- `s/old/new`: replace the first old word in the current line to new words
- `s/old/new/g`: replace all the old words in the file to new words


